DHCP changes handler
====================

If you have a router on linux and your ISP only gives you a dynamic IP address,
this script can help you to handle a dhcp reassignment by automatically
some scripts when it detect it.

Dependencies
------------
  * python 2.7 or 3.4 (it certainly works with prior versions, just not tested)
  * netifaces python module

Configuration
-------------

Copy the default configuration file `config.py.default` as `config.py`.
<b>Please do not modify or remove `config.py.default` if you cloned this
repository.  Always do your modifications in config.py.</b> Then modify
`config.py` for your setup (documentation is inside).

The service file `dhcp_handler.service` for systemd can be used, just modify
the script path in the ExecStart directive.

Usage
-----

Each 10 seconds (by default, but can be changed in config.py), the IP of each
configured interface is checked and saved in a configured path. If it changed
since the last time it was checked, the handler script associated to the
interface will be called.

For each interface, create a script handler in the handlers directory, named
like the interface: `eth0` for the handler of the interface eth0, etc...
You can write your handlers in bash or whatever you want, but it has to be
executable. When handlers are called, the new IP is sent as parameter.

Then, run the `dhcp_handler.py` script:

```
python dhcp_handler.py [option]
[option]:
    start: start in background
    stop: stop the daemon
    restart: restart the daemon
    run: run in foreground
```

Thanks
------

Thanks to:
  * <b>al45tair</b> for [netifaces](https://bitbucket.org/al45tair/netifaces)
  * <b>Server Density</b> for
    [python-daemon](https://github.com/serverdensity/python-daemon)

License
-------

Tool under the BSD license. Do not hesitate to report bugs, ask me some
questions or do some pull request if you want to !
